---
layout: post
title: "LL108 MD9 Recap"
date: 2026-03-06
---

# Q1

> Name the hypercasual and massively popular sliding number puzzle game created in 2014 by Gabriele Cirulli, whose objective is to combine numbered tiles on a 4×4 grid to reach a tile containing the game's name itself (or beyond).

<details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    2048
</details>

Near instaget, only held back by consideration of the original Threes.

I was not aware of the term "hypercasual game," which according to Wikipedia is a video game which is easy to play and usually free to play. Other hypercasual games I have played include Flappy Bird (shout out to junior year of high school), Temple Run, Fruit Ninja, and Subway Surfers.

# Q2

> Jean M. Auel's popular six-book historical fiction Earth's Children series about Ice Age humans, combining scrupulous archaeological research with dramatic storytelling, began in 1980 with The Clan of the what?

<details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Cave Bear
</details>

No idea on this one. I answered "Neanderthals." Close enough, because apparently the story is about a Cro-Magnon girl getting adopted into a Neanderthal clan. There is a 1986 film based on the book starring Daryl Hannah. I may have to check it out -  having been on a bit of a human evolution kick recently, I've wondered if there were any films that depicted pre-modern humans. *Alpha* (2018) is the only version of that I've seen.

# Q3

> "Eye of the day" (referring to the sun) is the literal translation from Malay for what stage name used by Frisian-born dancer Margaretha Geertruida Zelle, who was executed by firing squad in Paris in October 1917? 

<details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Mata Hari
</details>

Not too long to get this one. Executed by firing squad points to some of criminal, Malay stage name used by a Frisian-born woman fits with a spy, Mata Hari sounds like it could be Malay. All points in the right direction. Probably couldn't have pointed to the 1910s for the decade she was active but it sounded plausible.

# Q4

> A mini-resurgence of history-based plays on Broadway began in part with the 2007 debut of a drama by playwright Peter Morgan. The play was set in California in 1977, and starred Michael Sheen and Frank Langella as what title characters? (Note, name both characters.)  

<details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    David Frost, Richard Nixon
</details>

This one took a few minutes to think over. Eventually the two male title characters plus california in the 70s made me think of the Frost/Nixon movie. I started thinking I was pretty sure Michael Sheen sounded right for that, and that I remembered it being a play originally. Have not seen this movie. One thing that gave me pause is that I seem to always think that movie is about the Watergate period and not post-presidency.

# Q5

> On a film set, the daily master schedule created by the assistant director team that outlines who needs to be where, when, and what scenes they're shooting, as well as locations, weather, contacts, safety notes, and other miscellany, is commonly referred to by what two-word term?

<details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Call Sheet
</details>

This was the longest mull of the day. The term 'dailies' kept popping into my head, though I knew that referred to the day's completed shots and not a schedule. This is one that just eventually popped into the head after a several hours of mulling and revisiting the questions.

# Q6

> What breed of dog was developed in France in the 16th century, and has a long, fine coat, and ears with fringes of hair nominally resembling a butterfly's wings?

<details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Papillon
</details>

Don't remember if this comes from vocabulary I learned when working on learning French a few years ago or just a fact I learned when reading about the dog sometime. We may have fostered a pappilon/mix so that would have been the occasion.

# Results

*L 6(5) - 7(5)*

We both missed Cave Bear, MichniackiL played the (slightly) better defense.

